[Music]
across the uk
the staff of the nhs work tirelessly to
look after us
all at our most vulnerable
we don't always express how we feel to
the people who cared for us
so now more than ever we want to say
we are so lucky to have you thank you
i'm truly grateful
thank you for saving our lives
[Music]
daily
five years ago louis theroux embarked on
his most
worrying investigation yet
one day i noticed that i had this
intense pain
in my groin and i looked down and
checked myself out in the mirror
to find that one of my testicles was its
normal size
but the other one had grown up to the
size of a goose egg
approximately i mean an average goose
egg
so i went to an urgent medical facility
the doctor came in it was a young woman
and um it was a little awkward if i'm
honest
you know i she said what's the problem i
said my testicle has swollen up
and um she said well we better take a
look and i
i immediately thought are my boxes clean
what pattern are they are they
ridiculous and then
you just sort of have to do what you
have to do
i took my boxes down and she looked at
my testicles
the doctor said there were two things it
could be one was an infection relatively
straightforward to treat course of
antibiotics
she said the other thing it could be was
possibly fatal
she arranged for me to see a specialist
i took my pants off again the doctor
looked at my swollen testicle
and said it's alkitus infection of the
testicles
so thank you for maintaining the
symmetry in my scrotum
brothers aj and curtis pritchard are
known for their glittering dance careers
and even more glittering man types
[Music]
but for curtis in one terrifying moment
he swapped love island for casualty
on boxing day 2018 in cheshire
we decided to have a night out together
i remember being on the dance floor and
then all of a sudden
it just happened the the attack
these lads jumped us and i just remember
uh feeling this push you actually got
hit from
your side blindsided and three times you
were knocked out
i picked you up and got you out of there
everyone was going you face your face
curtis and i said i don't care about my
face i said i can't walk
couldn't put any weight on my knee and
the first thing that was going through
my head was
oh my gosh my dancing career gone
finished
it was traumatic when the paramedics
arrived
because they were so confident in how
they handled it
it made me feel calm in what was not a
calm situation
they took us straight to the hospital
and
within two days i was on the operating
table
i danced on tv five weeks after my
operation
i've got to thank my surgeon i've got to
thank everyone at the nhs
because i wouldn't be in the situation
i'm in right now if it wasn't for them
honestly so thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
my name is rosie
and as you can tell
from my voice i suffer
from
when comedian rosie jones was born it
was an extremely difficult and scary
experience for her parents my
birth wasn't
exactly straightforward
my shoulder got stuck
and i didn't breathe
for 17
minutes the doctors
and their midwives were tired literally
to get me breathing
again eventually
i cried
she's golden
my mom and dad didn't
know if i would walk
or talk
at the age of three rosie was diagnosed
with cerebral palsy
which meant years of intensive speech
and physical therapy
i had a warm freezer
who was with me
for my entire childhood
she was amazing
and she would torch me
back and forth to
improve my core strength
and it worked
rosie wants to thank jane her now
retired physiotherapist
for going the extra mile in supporting
her and her parents
hello i can't believe
and talking to you for the
first time in
20 years i know
we always had such a laugh that's what i
remember from our sessions
you were just so determined all the time
just to achieve everything i am able
to do what i do
now because i've been
oh thank you just can't believe how well
you're doing
i'm just so proud of you it's brilliant
rosie
see radiation i can
never play
i owe everything to those
nhs doctors
and nurses
i will never know
what they've given
to me and my family
my mom used to love dad's army but she
could never understand the country they
sent
old people into battle they're going
well it's funny but i wouldn't do that
in jamaica
in the 1990s lenny henry was a constant
face on our tv screens
but off-camera he was dealing with his
mum's illness back home in the west
midlands
in the period between 1991 and 1998
quite a lot of things happened to me i
made a feature film
in america which was not a big success
not a big success i was
doing chef i was involved with comic
relief the lenny henry show and things
like that
but while all that was going on my mom
was really poorly
she had glaucoma diabetes
heart condition and the beginnings of
gangrene that would eventually mean
she would have to have a double
amputation mom was at two
big hospitals in the midlands in the
black country
and they allowed my family to come in
and out and to cry
and to have anger and
joy and to bring in caribbean food and
to have church services around mom's bed
it was all right to come and do her hair
moisturize her skin and do whatever it
took
to make her feel at home welcome
in a hospital ward even when mom was
moaning about the forward end right here
and
they can't cook and what am i doing in
here with all these old people
what was great was there was a
sensitivity
at play where you felt that they were
listening to her
and i don't think any of my family would
have got through this
without the help of the staff
[Music]
ever since my mom passed away i've been
thinking about what people do selflessly
and kindly and with empathy in caring
for the ones we love
which makes all of us feel like
we're in a safe pair of hands and that's
great right
[Music]
you